In the AI age, anyone can become a
hundred million dollar entrepreneur,
build a company solo. Do you think it is
possible now?
>> I think it's very
>> This is Mike Kger. A lot of you guys
know him as co-founder of Instagram.
He's also chief product officer at
Anthropic, building Claude and shaping
how we work and solve problems using AI.
>> The next step there is Claude actually
being an entire sort of co-orker. It's
going to do everything perfectly well.
You're a first-time entrepreneur without
a big network. You're doing all those
things yourself. So why not try to bring
the best of what we know into that
company uh via something like Claude?
>> And it's not just hype. Cloud is already
helping millions of people with product
building, being their lure, and even
being their therapist. People who just
graduated from college are struggling to
find jobs because a lot of entry-
levelvel jobs being replaced with AI. Do
you ever wake up at night and think
like, oh my god, where the world is
going with AI?
>> This could be really positive for
humanity. It also could go quite badly
and there's going to be economic
impacts. There's going to be labor
impacts.
>> So, should we be hopeful or afraid?
>> Hello everyone. Welcome to Silicon
Valley Girl. I have an amazing person
here today, Mike. Thank you so much for
being here.
>> It's good to be here.
>> Uh you have this amazing story of
building a huge company, but also you
are at the forefront of what's happening
with AI right now. There's been this
conversation that in the AI age anyone
can become a hundred million dollar
entrepreneur like build a company solo.
Do you think it is possible now or we're
still away from that?
>> I think it's very possible just even
watching the journey I went on with
Instagram where we did a lot of the
initial work with just me and Kevin and
we were able to do a lot with just the
two of us and there's a focus and an
energy when you get when you just have
one or two people working on something.
I think the ideal is actually too
because it's helpful having a partner
when going through the ups and downs.
But what I've learned is as you grow,
every person you grow the team is
another person that can bring their own
ideas and bring their energy which is
great. But it's also another person that
you need to get on board if you need to
shift where the company is going. And so
what I think is very exciting now is
that one, two, three person team can
scale themselves up, do a lot more than
they would have been able to do before,
maybe do it faster, um, and preserve
that kind of I call it conceptual
integrity. like you have like all of
what matters about that company in your
head or in two heads basically working
together versus trying to steer a huge
ship.
>> Do you think being technical is crucial
to building a large company these days
or it is unnecessary with all the
existing tools? I think you know with
with increasing things like cloud code
um with like products online I think
you're getting to the point where you're
able to at least get to um a version of
your idea where you can see if there's
something there you know because that's
like the biggest thing that I've get
like in the age of kind of mobile apps
first emerging. I would hear from people
all the time and they'd be like, "Mike,
I have a great idea for a mobile app.
Like, do you know any mobile engineers
or how do I get it built?" And that was
often where the idea would die. And some
of those ideas maybe wouldn't have
worked out, but some of them might
actually have created something really
novel, right? There would be people that
said, "Oh, I have a novel idea for a
social app or a dating app or a game."
And so many of those ideas just kind of
like, you know, kind of died at that
stage. And so what I think is exciting
is even if the the tools aren't there
where they're not necessarily going to
get you from your first 10 users to your
first million users in terms of the
system scaling up, they'll at least get
you in front of those first 10 people,
right? Like get you to the prototype or
even that initial version. And that
seems very possible even people who
aren't um technical. We see that inside
Anthropic where some of our
non-engineers, you know, people in
marketing, people in communications who
just have had an idea in the back of
their heads for a while will sit and
talk to Claude and work with Claude code
on the weekends and then share it
internally like look what I built and I
don't code at all.
>> That's super cool. So what would be your
uh road map? So come up with an idea,
build an MVP, share it with like 10 20
people. U you had experience where you
had to shut down the company, right? Can
you tell what the product was?
>> It was a our second company. I started a
second company with the same um uh
co-founder as Instagram and it was
called Artifact. And the product itself
I'm super proud of. It was a AI powered
news uh recommendation product. So we
would learn your interests and then we
would give you a feed of you know
different articles and and stories that
you might be interested in. Um, and at
like a really nuanced level like you
people might be interested in um not
just graphic design but you know uh bow
house graphic design or Japanese
architecture like really understanding
the kinds of things that people were
like more deeply interested in but the
product didn't hit enough of like a
product market um you know fit and an
acceleration that made it made sense to
continue to invest in it. So that
process of having created something and
iterated on it and built a team around
it but then also coming to the
realization that the right thing was to
move on from it was really challenging
>> and the pressure was on right it was
right after Instagram.
>> It was and you know and then that you
know in some ways that was really a
hindrance.
>> When do you make this decision about an
idea that you showed to maybe like 20
people? Yeah.
>> When do you say like hey this is it or
do I keep pushing? I think for me it's
very much when you're um in that phase
are you as you're making changes and as
you're showing it to people and they're
giving you feedback and then maybe maybe
you even have some people using it does
it feel like the more you change or the
you know as you listen to feedback and
make some alterations is is there like a
snowball effect where energy is
increasing? We definitely saw that in
early Instagram and we had initially a
group of maybe 20 30 people using it in
just a private beta and you know it was
very much a weekend product right
because you're out and about and
especially in the early days that's all
you were doing was just taking photos
with Instagram. it wasn't that, you
know, you were uploading photos from
somewhere else or your camera roll. And
so we would find that we would work all
week and then on Friday we'd ship a new
version to those like 20, 30, 40 testers
and then we'd see what would happen over
the weekend. And every weekend those
changes that we were making, we'd hear
from people, oh, I tried the new filter,
I tried this thing, it's going it's
going well. Um, so that's what I look
for a lot. And I think where it's time
to maybe either pivot the company or
move on to something else is when you
feel like, man, I've tried every idea
that I have or I've added 30 things and
none of them are really sticking or
people are kind of okay about it but
they're not excited about it. And that's
maybe where you might want to step back
and say there's probably energy better
spent somewhere else. Like the way it's
not scientific, but when you feel like
one unit of input you're getting 10
units of output, that's a good feeling.
When it feels like 10 units of input,
you're getting one of output, it's time
to pivot to something else.
>> What fascinates me most in these
conversations about AI is that how our
consumption behavior changes. I wonder
what it looks like in your life, but in
my life, I think like 20 to 30% of
purchases are made through an LLM. I ask
Claude to research something for me or
ask other tools to pick the best product
for me. There's actually statistics that
60% of searches end up without a click.
Attention is scattered. And yes, more
and more buyers are doing research in
LLMs instead of following a traditional
funnel. And businesses have to adjust.
You have to be generative engine
friendly. We're moving from SEO to GEO,
generative engine optimization. If you
want your marketing strategy to be ready
for what's coming, I suggest checking
out HubSpot's new loop marketing prompt
library. It's a pack of 100 field tested
prompts designed to solve 2025's biggest
marketing challenges. This will help you
build marketing systems that don't just
keep up, but actually learn and adapt
instead of running static campaigns that
get stale. You'll have a datadriven
system where humans and AI work together
and that evolves with your audience over
time. It's built around four dynamic
stages. In the express stage, you'll
define your voice, lock in your brand
style guide, and craft the stories that
set you apart. In the tailor stage,
you'll enrich your data to deliver
experiences that feel personal. Make
your prospects think, "How did they know
that?" In the amplify stage, you'll
expand your reach with AI, creator
partnerships, and communitydriven
campaigns. In the evolve stage, you'll
monitor, adapt, and improve in real
time. Build a system that learns as it
grows. No more cookie cutter campaigns.
No more static reports. My favorite part
is how it turns AI into a growth engine
that compounds over time instead of just
running the same campaigns on repeat. If
you want to stand out and build
marketing systems that don't just keep
up, but actually learn and adapt, grab
the loop marketing prompt library for
free. The link is in the description.
And big thanks to HubSpot for sponsoring
this video. Let's talk about people who
already have a business. Uh, I've heard
you talk about how people are not using
AI enough in their businesses. What do
you think are top maybe two or three
cases how entrepreneurs can use cloud to
automate some operations which doesn't
require you to be very technical? Yeah.
So, I was actually talking to a fellow
friend who's a second or third time
founder and uh he was telling me he's
like, "Mike, I'm really glad you
launched Claude Max because Claude is my
product manager. Claude is my lawyer. Um
Claude is my, you know, uh founder
therapist as well." And what he does is
he has a Claude project for each of
those disciplines. So, he has his
product manager Claude, he has his uh
you know, like contracts Claude, and he
just uses that for all of those things.
it's let him run a very lean um initial
company overall and and do those pieces.
And so even though he happens to be
fairly technical, but he's not coding
with Claude really in his day-to-day,
he's actually set up Claude to be um
sort of a mini version of some of these
disciplines already. Even as the models,
you know, continue to get more and more
powerful in those ways. Even today with
the right context and the right sort of
history around something you really can
start having these sort of per job
function thought partners in there and
for an entrepreneur for sure you know
have uh you know a model that validates
your idea or sees what you might be
missing um another one doing you know
competitive intelligence to understand
what's even out there and understanding
those pieces of course helping you build
with code is another another part of it
too but even beyond that the way I like
to think of it When you grow a company,
you want to go hire. I want the best
CFO. I want, you know, the best head of
product, etc. When you're a
entrepreneur, especially like I was a
first-time entrepreneur without a big
network, you're doing all those things
yourself. So, why not try to bring the
best of what we know into that company
uh via something like Claude?
>> What do you think is going to happen in
two or three years? How we're going to
progress in advance? I think part of it
and I was having this conversation this
morning even with some of our our
researchers um the the progression or
the the dynamic that I see is um if last
year maybe the beginning of this year um
these models and I'll use claude as the
example were really kind of uh
assistants that were helping you with
maybe a question at a time or maybe a
task right um this year they're moving
more into collaborators where um
especially if you watch somebody use um
cloud code for example they're actually
delegating what would have taken them
maybe 20, 30 minutes and Claude's going
off and doing it and then you're
checking in and you're more on the sort
of validating or verifying work, right?
Going into next year, you're going to
delegate even bigger chunks of time or
even like pieces of the job out to that.
So, it's not just I have this very
specific thing, please go do it. And it
could be more sort of think of it,
Claude, as something that's in the loop
of your business. So, hey Claude, um,
watch for any new user feedback and
maybe propose a change based on that.
And you can imagine evolving that. don't
just propose a change, write the code to
make the change and I'll check if it's a
good idea or not. Um, and then the next
step there is Claude actually being an
entire sort of co-orker where it has a
discipline. So, not just a project that
happens to be a good thought partner for
product management, but an actual
product manager in your company
>> like being active, right? Is that what
you mean? When it I don't know, look at
your ads and says like, "Hey, hey, hey,
I'm going to change this."
>> Exactly.
>> He's telling you. So, when do you think
that's going to happen? I think that is
within, you know, it depends a little
bit on the discipline with um coding
sort of tasks. I think within the year
we'll start seeing Claude be able to do
those things. And I think in some of
these other disciplines maybe it's more
like two or three years, but it's not
wildly far away. And it's not that it's
going to do everything perfectly well.
There's still going to be this
validation human in the loop aspect of
it. Um but I think the big shift is
going to be this autonomy and
proactivity where you're not having to
give it explicit instructions every time
and instead um you can almost describe
what kind of role you want it to play
and then it will be able to play that
role as long as you've connected it to
the right um you know data sources
>> and how active you want it to be right
because now it's basically just you
chatting I want the model to be talking
to me as well proactively like hey I
just noticed this
>> that would be cool
>> exactly
>> half a year ago Dario Amade today said
90% of code would be written by AI. What
percentage of code is written by AI at
anthropic? Now
>> it depends on the product but for our
products that are sort of the closest to
being written. So cloud code for
example, they're doing almost entirely
the the development of that is using
cloud to develop cloud.
>> How has it changed the way you work?
>> Well, it's let me who I like being
technical but my day-to-day often is in
you know uh external commitments or
doing management. Um it's let me remain
really technical which is fun. So like
because we've oriented the codebase to
being able to be written by claude, it
means somebody like me can also
contribute as well. So we launched our
cloud for Chrome just uh it was earlier
this week and uh I had a little bit of
time on a business trip and I said, "Oh,
I have two hours free. What am I going
to do?" I was like, "I'm going to
contribute to this thing that I know
we're shipping in a couple of weeks."
And so it's broadened the group of
people that can contribute for sure. Um
I think it's also kind of moved where
the bottlenecks are where we need to pay
special attention to. So I think we've
put more time up front now into all
right let's get clarity across our team
about what needs to get done so that you
know we don't have this like amazing
technology that can code really quickly
but the engineers are actually not even
sure what the thing is that needs to get
built. So that still remains very
important right being aligned having
that that consistent vision and then on
the last part which is that you know
codes being ready to you know get
committed and get reviewed the number of
pull requests and changes that are going
into our codebase is just dramatically
accelerated. One of our um developer
productivity engineers shared this last
week we're just on an exponential there
too. So we've had to re-engineer those
systems too.
>> Crazy. Wow. Claude for Chrome. You
mentioned is it gonna fix email?
Something done for us like yesterday. Uh
I just came back from a business trip.
My kids went to school and they were
because they don't really some of them
like Lily who doesn't speak English. She
doesn't understand what's going on. She
was like tomorrow's pajamas day and I
was asking my AI like is it really? And
it's like no no all good nothing's
happening at school. And of course we
come and it's pajamas.
>> Pajamas day. Yeah.
>> Like oops.
>> And it was interesting. The demo we had
in front of the company was um was like
cloud triaging emails and it's still you
know probably too slow right now still
to be like the main way in which you
interact with your emails but um I went
through for example I had a lot of
pending LinkedIn uh invites but I and I
wanted to you know ignore the ones that
weren't real but I wanted to make sure
that if it was somebody from anthropic
or it sounded like they knew me that we
would like make sure that we uh captured
those. And so I had Claude just kind of
triage that whole inbox for, you know,
an hour actually and it went through.
>> Did you have to code something or you
just asked?
>> Just asked it. I was like, "Hey,
>> that's Claude for Chrome, right? Just
ask it to go through." Oh, wow.
>> Yeah. Visit LinkedIn. Look at my
invitation.
>> Be your assistant in your browser.
>> Exactly.
>> Can you share some personal practices
for how you use Claude?
>> For me, it's anytime I've written
something. I found that I still want to
take the first draft myself because I,
you know, sometimes writing is thinking
and that's really important that you're
actually, at least for me, that I'm kind
of expressing myself through writing.
But before showing any human, basically
anything I write that's of substance,
I'll basically tell Claude and say,
"Hey, I'm writing on this like what am I
missing? Please challenge me on what I'm
I haven't said yet." And sometimes it'll
give you a suggestion. And it ranges
from I can't believe I forgot to address
that. It would have been really
embarrassing to share this document and
not have this. And then sometimes it's,
oh wow, I wasn't even thinking about
this dimension. It's something like very
uh new and different. And actually, I
use it less for copy editing, but I use
it a lot for challenging my ideas and
and figuring out how to, you know, um
kind of understand what a very smart
person looking at this would ask as the
next follow-up question and then can you
kind of go from there?
>> Do do you still type? You said you're
writing or you would do voice.
>> Um it's kind of a mix. Another thing
I've done with Claude sometimes when I'm
like I I'm a little bit of writer's
block. I need to get started, but I
still want that experience of working
through an idea myself is I will uh turn
on the voice mode and just talk to it
for 20 minutes sometimes and at the end
say, "All right, that was a lot. Now,
can you organize that into some kind of,
you know, real cohesive document that
you can that I can send?"
>> When do you think it's going to happen
that AI generates ideas better than
humans? Cuz what where I see this going,
you have this marketing AI, you have
this product AI. What if we just combine
all of this and tell like hey AI go
identify niches in the market where you
can build a business build a business
launch ads make me money like when is do
you think it's going to happen and
>> well it's an interesting one experiment
we ran internally um is so we have a
whole team that really starting to
really focus on um sort of cloud in the
real world or you know frontier
applications of cloud and what can we
learn by studying it and one of the
things that we had it do is actually run
a vending machine and now it's multiple
vending machines here at the office. Um,
and so people could talk to Claude. It's
it's a great paper. It's called Project
Vend. Um, and what's interesting is in
some cases it's very capable. Like it
was able to track inventory, place
backup orders, like do all these things,
interact with the people who were
talking to it, but as a pure sort of
business, it still made some like
mistakes like overestimating demand, you
know, overcharging or undercharging for
certain things. So uh I think one aspect
that we need to develop before it's
fully ready to be sort of a entrepreneur
in a box is a little bit more of that
business sense and and how to understand
the market like what is actually
sellable etc. But often we find with
some steering or some feedback it
actually can do very very well. So maybe
initially it's still going to be all
right, partner with a person. Let's go,
you know, maybe like business school
101, like identify a problem or a market
gap, try it out, learn from it, um see
what worked and what didn't and go and
and build from there. Um but what I
think is also really interesting is that
you can also set up some experiments
around like what are the things that
people are searching for? like what are
the demands like what are the feedback
that other products are getting that
maybe a new product could feel better
and then have Claude both brainstorm the
idea and then also go off and build it.
>> Do you think it's more for you as an
entrepreneur also is it more encouraging
or discouraging when AI is getting so
powerful?
>> I think for me you know having watched
over the years like the the friction to
starting something new in some ways has
decreased in other in other cases is
about the same. you know, it's uh
there's more resources out there about
what is it like to incorporate or raise
money than there was when I was when I
was doing even Instagram for the first
time, but building stuff is still, you
know, can still be a challenge and that
needs needs to continue to get easier.
So, I always felt like there was more
good ideas than there were, you know,
products that kind of surface those
ideas out there. So, I think it's
exciting to have more of that um out
there. Partially also because if the
cost of creating that company goes down,
we should also get new funding models.
Not every idea needs to be a huge
venture funded, you know, billion dollar
business. Um, but if you have to build a
whole tech team around it and you have
to go hire and then it's going to
require some funding. And so I'm very
excited about, call it the next 5 years
of companies that can scale from the,
you know, worldchanging venture-funded
crazy ambitious companies, but also the
ones that solve a problem really well
for a particular demographic and maybe
remain a one to five person team along
with AI. Yeah, this is where I think
this model because I raised uh venture
capital as a creator like I was the
first creator to do that. I feel like
this is the age where you invest in
humans because now they can iterate
through so many ideas and
>> yes
>> a year and you want to back someone who
has these ideas and uh can execute
>> 100%.
>> For all the entrepreneurs who are
watching where should they start today
if they want to start?
>> I mean I think there's two things that I
think you'd think about that are unique
to the moment versus like generally
about starting companies. one is um not
building for where the models are today,
but where you think that they can get to
in one or two model generations. By the
time you've built it, the models will
have done that that move on. And so um
the way you do that is to push the
models as hard as you can, like break
them almost and say, "Wow, wouldn't it
be great if um uh one experiment
somebody ran internally was like they
gave Claude their whole to-do list, you
know, in like reminders or something was
like, "Hey, Claude, go do all these
things." I mean really quickly hit a
point where well it didn't have all the
information about me so it can't do it
or this is before we had cloud for
Chrome it can't use my browser so it
can't like go and you know fill out this
form that I needed to fill out
>> but then you can imagine well what if it
could all right should I be building
towards that and does that feel like a
fiveyear journey or like a you know two
months and six months and things are
accelerating and so that's like a very
big piece I think is like the best
companies um are building like ready to
you know take advantage of the fact that
the models will continue to to improve
prove and your advantage as an
entrepreneur is that you don't have a
legacy codebase. You don't have people
using a product in a particular way. You
can build for that, you know, kind of
inflection point.
>> It's just so hard to predict like if the
model is going to take over your whole
business niche, right?
>> But I think that, you know, and it
definitely hard to predict in the, you
know, threeear range at that point, you
can also kind of evolve the business.
But like seeing what models were bad at
6 months ago or are better at now or
like okay today but could be better at
the future. I think that can really come
just from like constant contact with
them
>> and just start iterating.
>> What would be your advantage compared to
a model that could do the same thing in
a year?
>> Yeah. I mean then yeah it's very much
so. Exactly. If you can create that um
if you're building at that edge and you
understand your customer segment then
you're going to be the one that is going
to best be suited to say all right you
know what also got better like this
aspect and I get how that's going to
connect to my customer segment and I
already have the relationships cuz
people are still they seek trust still
right and you know somebody who
understands their segment and has the
relationships is going to you know be a
more trustworthy source any day than
like a brand new person or a company
that they've never interacted before.
>> Yeah. And I like how you said in one of
your interviews that every product has
this vibe.
>> Yes.
>> And uh if you're building something with
passion, then it definitely has your
vibe, right? That some people are going
to connect with and that's going to be
yours.
>> Exactly. Right. And that that's your
voice coming through there even beyond
whatever AI is going to provide.
>> What would be your advice to
entrepreneurs who are looking to start a
company? What niches do you think have
the most potential?
>> I think people um are still u
fundamentally like human and still have
like very human needs. So I think a lot
of the the aspects I still think about
being really important are for example
people's health both physical and mental
and even though there's the beginning of
AI helping with those aspects I think
there's so much more potential around
that as well right how do we relate to
ourselves how do we develop our own you
know understanding of where we're
showing up well where we could be
showing up better um how we can continue
to evolve kind of as individuals but as
also as teams or as partners so that's
another an area that I think um I'm
excited for more companies to get formed
in their fitness fitness and performance
coaching is another another place that's
important there. Um too, I think there's
also going to be this uh renaissance of
being, you know, into the physical or
the real world. You know, you had very
much this like, you know, social media
like thing that was, you know, Instagram
at its best was helping people get out
and see the world in a different way. At
scale, maybe it became more about like
watching what other people were doing
than going out yourself, right? So, how
do we get new companies and products
that are about, you know, either
exploring something new, getting to see
the city through a new light,
participating in a civic way that's
different? I think not all of these
require AI, but done right, they could
be encouraged by AI.
>> What should be entrepreneurs focusing
on? Is it getting expertise in the niche
where they're building or just being
focused on like identifying those niches
and iterating ideas? I think a lot of
the most important companies are going
to come from understanding those niches
or those businesses. So a friend of mine
is uh building a company in the
construction space and she went to all
of the construction conferences got to
know people really building in that
space and understanding what is like
uniquely important about that. This
reminds me a lot of when I was at the
Stanford D school, that whole process of
developing empathy and storytelling and
really getting to the heart of what the
needs are where technology actually can
have an impact on an industry or a
person in a positive way. That ends up
being very very important. You know,
I've also met another entrepreneur who
works with AI for a very specific type
of legal practice and they're, you know,
going off to, you know, states in the US
that aren't the most techfor necessarily
spending a lot of time with people who
are in that particular discipline. So
that kind of expertise is I think what
is going to differentiate the companies
because it's going to be easier to
build, but that knowledge of like what
actually to build and how to build very
specifically for that is going to be
what's really valuable. What about
marketing? Because it feels like okay
ideas I can generate a lot of ideas.
Claude can help me then I build the
product with claude or replet or
lovable. What what's going to happen to
marketing? Everyone's talking about like
hey every what should be on social media
because otherwise how do you market your
idea? What do you think?
>> That's definitely evolved from when we
were building Instagram. the way you got
your, you know, product out there,
especially a social product like
Instagram was for us people sharing
their Instagram creations to um Facebook
and to Twitter at the time and then
seeing that link and then finding that
it's definitely shifted to much more of
this uh sort of creator, you know,
whether it's Instagram or on Tik Tok and
people telling those stories um and and
discovering those products. It's
interesting watching that evolution now
and kind of wondering like well what
comes after that as well you know is it
going to be um still like al algorithmic
recommendations are we going to return
to oh like word of mouth I really like
this thing and it solved my very
specific problem and I'm going to share
it with you and maybe there's some
combination of those two that needs to
needs to happen but I completely agree
that the what will also differentiate
beyond an understanding of a market is
also the ability to tell the story
around that
>> yeah what was going to happen to content
you I think in two or three years cuz my
feed is like maybe 50% AI something like
crazy going on or I see an AI generated
image. It's been in like I uh I like use
trying to use social products from all
around the world and for a while I was
using um a social media app that was um
like very popular in China and the thing
that struck me was that you had creators
that were really good at AI generated
sort of fantastical architecture and
they had a real following even though
their work was all generated because
they had a voice and so I think that is
the the next piece that um not a lot of
people are doing well which is yes you
can be using AI for generating videos or
text, but if it's just generic or if
it's just, you know, kind of a bunch of
random things that you manage to
generate, I don't think that's going to
generate following or I think that's not
going to generate um like a a real uh
presence on these platforms. Whereas, I
remember there was a a photographer that
early Instagram photographer, like
probably one of our first 10,000 users,
and he took a photo of the same hill
like outside his window like every day.
And it was like that was like a
photographic practice that he had. And
that was really cool because then his
followers could see that he had a view
of the world and and kind of a
perspective. And I think the same thing
needs to be true to succeed as a
creator, even if you're using AI tools.
>> Yeah, that's fascinating. Uh let's talk
about people who don't have
entrepreneurial ambitions, but they're
like, I want to work for a company. Uh
your hiring strategy at Anthropic has
changed recently, right? You're hiring
more highlevel people. Is that right?
>> It's a kind of a shift. So the way I
think about it is you want people that
um are going to be defined more about
the problems that they want to solve and
how they can creatively solve them than
a very specific sort of I know
JavaScript and I'm going to do work in
this exact um environment. And so I'm
still really drawn to the folks that on
the weekends um or in their you know
spare time are prototyping ideas. They
came up with something they're bringing
that even to the interview process. you
know, some of our product managers that
we've talked to have had like a culture
of experimentation that they've been
working through. And I think that's very
uh very interesting. I really look for
that when I'm hiring. Interesting thing
is it's not so different than when I was
hiring for Instagram. The people I
always gravitated towards were ones
that, you know, if you talk to them on a
Monday morning, tell you all about the
new thing that they got interested.
Doesn't have to even be techreated, but
there is that sort of curiosity,
>> excitement. Yeah.
>> Exactly. And I still absolutely look for
look for that as well. And then in terms
of the kind of makeup of the teams that
we want to build, you know, we we
haven't had a like summer internship
program. So, we've tended less to hire
the like kind of fresh college grads,
but I've in talking to a lot of people
who uh maybe are going through college
now or recent graduates, you know,
they're also enabling themselves via AI
to sort of understand the market,
understand the dynamics, be
entrepreneurial in their own way, even
if they're not starting their own
companies and then coming into companies
and telling that story.
>> How do you learn that? How do you learn
how to become entrepreneurial or
generate ideas? Are you teaching your
kids that?
>> I well I mean our kids are pretty young.
I do try to to to encourage the idea of
like observe the world and be you know
open to what is there. You know the
thing I did early on was I had a little
yeah little notebook that I would carry
around everywhere and basically just
always kind of writing and ideiating and
like making space for that sort of quiet
ideiation time you know is is really
useful. One of the the ways I've seen
people use Claude, you know, if you ask
Claude for one idea, it'll generate an
idea. Maybe it'll be a good one. But the
thing that's unique about it is it can
also generate 50 or 100 ideas. So
practice that I find is useful is give
it, you know, five or 10 and then ask it
to fill in the next 30 and maybe one of
those sparks something else. There's a
lot of research where um asking people
to brainstorm together in a room is not
as effective as asking one person to
write down 10 ideas and pass those 10
ideas to the next person. Have them um
kind of generate the next 10. So you can
simulate that same process but with AI.
Now
>> what is your ritual uh for generating
ideas? You said quiet time. Do you go on
a walk or
>> walks are really helpful for me? I also
just like any kind of repeated action I
really like. like I got one of those
Pelaton rowing machines and I found
something you're like okay it's a very
repetitive action but then your mind can
kind of start wandering and and start
thinking about what those different
things and and also you need to give
your brain the opportunity to make new
connections while you're not focusing on
it and then maybe later it'll come and
say oh yeah that that actually does
connect really well
>> is it like every day that you make time
for this
>> I wish it were every day it's more
probably like once or twice a week these
days um but I always every time I do it
I'm like I really should be doing this
you know more regular and all of a
sudden be excited to like sit down and
like put pen to paper and then share
that with the team.
>> What about uh going back to kids? I have
two small kids and sometimes I read
these articles where like oh people who
just graduated from college are
struggling to find jobs because a lot of
entry level jobs being replaced with AI
and I'm like okay I'm worrying about
myself but now I have to worry about
them as well. Uh what are you teaching
your kids? What do you think they're
going to do in 10 years when they go out
uh to the job market?
>> Yeah, it's super far hard to predict
like what that market looks like right a
six and a four-year-old. So, it's going
to be the the what might change a lot
and even some of the how will change,
but I think there's a few things that
are kind of worth calling out. One is
talked a little bit before about being
curious and observant about the world.
That remains really powerful. They did
this um uh uh whole like whole school
event at my um kids school around like
uh even having the kindergarteners
observe what could be better about the
school and then like create posters
about like ideas about how to improve
them. That's a great mental exercise for
kids
>> and like to even ask that question, you
know, and some of the ideas are like
creative and some of them are kind of
silly, but even like having that
mentality is something I think will
serve anybody well as they grow up cuz
that's a change that you could try to
make within your school or your
community or your company and and and so
forth. So I think that piece matters and
I think the other one that should remain
constant like there was a lot of energy
around like learn to code everybody
should learn to code and I think too
many people interpreted that as like you
should learn Python and it's like yes
you can learn Python that's going to be
helpful through to some things but more
than that it's can you think in terms of
systems can you think systematically and
the folks that internalized that I think
even with the advent of AI generating
coding you can still apply those same
techniques were the ones that were just
Oh yeah, I learned to code and now I'm
like feeling a drift because of that. So
I think what I hope to encourage in my
kids is that that sense of curiosity and
observation and then also this ability
to think in terms of systems like how do
these things interrelate? you know,
whenever they um they got because of all
the politics and news, they were like
interested in tariffs and like my wife
had a really wonderful sort of
interactive example of like how you know
interdependent economies might interact
and you could see their eyes kind of
their gears kind of. So that kind of
like explain the system, don't just
explain the facts.
>> Love that. Uh can we talk a little bit
about your English because I started my
YouTube journey talking about English
because I'm originally from Russia. I
came with an accent and then I learned
how to speak like an American. You sound
like an American. Like how did that
happen?
>> I think it was a couple of things. So
one was I was interested in music from a
very early age and especially like
American and British bands. So I loved
Oasis. Actually going to go see them in
a couple weeks. I'm excited. But I never
saw them. Are they coming here? They're
coming to Pasadena. So I'm going to
play. Um, but like if you're singing
that language, you know, you have to
kind of hear, you know, for it to even
rhyme or sound good, you have to kind of
hear yourself. And so I think music was
a big part of it as well. And then we
moved around a bunch when I was a kid
and and the one constant were
international schools. And so, you know,
starting from a fairly early age, I was
I was bilingual. Um, but only lived in
the States when I turned 18. And so
there was some words that I had never
really said out loud because I just read
them and then um internalized them over
here. But it is funny. I mean we've had
maybe we've had this experience too
where now you know I'm been here for a
while. I'm a citizen here now but will
never feel fully like I'm from here
because I grew up in Brazil but when I
go to Brazil I don't feel fully there.
So kind of from both and from neither
now.
>> Yeah that's super cool. Uh I wanted to
ask for advice for all the immigrants
who are watching. Do you think it make
if you want to build company in AI, do
you think it makes sense to move to
Silicon Valley or again with AI does it
matter where you are?
>> I think the barrier to creating products
has really really you know shortened
where now you know before in Brazil
especially when I was growing up there
there wasn't really a talent market of
really good engineers. I mean now there
is much more because there's been
generations of companies that have been
created but that might not be the case
for every single kind of city or every
single country. AI can definitely help
there as well. There's also such a
broader uh set of you know information
and content around what to look for in a
co-founder. How do you think about that
initial idea? How do you build from
there? How do you market? And what I've
been really excited about is, you know,
whenever I talk to, for example,
Brazilian entrepreneurs where I'm from
who are understanding uniquely Brazilian
problems or uniquely Brazilian
opportunities around our unique payment
systems, you know, how uh Brazilian the
economy works like the public safety
questions and then applying AI or
applying technology to those problems. I
think there is a tremendous opportunity
there and one of the things I get
excited about is in the past if you had
some an idea there your only path would
have been well I hope I can go fund
raise from Silicon Valley VCs. I think
there's much more of an opportunity to
um build that locally and then try to
fundra you don't need funds to build an
>> you can at least get to that point where
you've gotten something exciting
>> wanted to wrap up the language part.
Yeah.
>> Do you think language learning is going
to be replaced by AI? I really think
about this because, you know, I um I've
been out of Brazil for long enough where
all of the sort of like colloquialism or
slang has moved on and I just haven't
lived there in a long time. And so I've
used even though I fluent in Portuguese,
I'll now use Claude and say, "Hey, I'm
about to send this to somebody who's
like my age, like do I sound old or do I
sound like out of date?" And he'll be
like, "Well, you might want to use this
kind of uh language instead or
something, you know, kind of nuance
there." I still think the the value of
learning the nuances of language is is
still important. You know, we went to
Korea with a lot of the anthropic team
in March and Cloud is actually quite
good at Korean. Um, we heard from people
on the ground that it's the best of the
at the of the models at Korean, but even
so, they said it still sounds like a
really cool Korean that like grew up in
LA and then like moved back. And I was
like, that's nuance. Like, I'm not sure
>> American vibes.
>> Yeah. So, how do we like uh continue to
push that as well? But you know we're
definitely getting to the point where
that sort of vision of like you can be
in a country and uh you know interact
you know that with
>> yeah AI is going to become natural at
some point and then do you think there's
going to be a wearable that we're
wearing and it just interacts for you
listens for you and
>> I think so although there's also the
value of having like technologyfree
interactions and so there's I think
always still going to be that the appeal
of right I actually learned this
language I'm going to go and be with
somebody in full presence rather than
feel like we're being intermediated. by
technology.
>> Uh do you have any rituals? Uh any hard
nos because you're a dad, you're a
husband, but you're also a CPO at this
huge company. Can you talk about your
day-to-day?
>> Yeah, I really focus on you know the
routines that kind of anchor my day are
um you know for a long time I resisted
being a morning person, but now I've
just realized I'm like
>> in the US you have to. It's like 4 4
a.m. people everywhere.
>> Yeah. And the kids, you know, that
they're going to start school at 8:00.
then you got to get up early. But we
have breakfast together and we wake up
early enough where we actually have time
to dedicate to breakfast and that ends
up being like this really great morning
ritual and sometimes we'll also do, you
know, like longer dinners with the kids
and like get to download the day. But
those are more unpredictable. Sometimes
they're exhausted and they just want to
get through it and go into, you know,
bedtime. So breakfast is a more reliable
kind of opportunity to kind of set
intentions and think about the day. So
we'll we'll always we'll always kind of
anchor on that and then we read to them
every night. And that's been fun to see
the evolution from, you know, you're
reading your very simple board books to
now picking up these stories and and
then now our six-year-old can sort of
start reading to our four-year-old,
which is also very cute.
>> Oh, that's the best. They can take care
of themselves.
>> Yeah, it's kind of that. So I think like
those that that start and the start and
finish anchors are really valuable. So
like no matter what, you know, even if
later I'm going to have to pick back
some project that I'm doing, like really
stopping and spending that time and like
anchoring either side of the day has
been great.
>> Anything around travel? Do you have to
travel a lot or
>> the travel pieces I've tried to do? One
uh that was a newer thing and it's not
even using very much AI, but I
discovered time shifter this year and
it's been like the biggest changer.
Yeah, it's like the jet lag thing. And
uh when we were in Vivate actually where
we met, I used that app going, you know,
into that trip and it would, you know,
the rest of the team would laugh at me
because I was like, "All right,
everybody, stop drinking coffee. It's,
you know, 3:00 in the afternoon and, you
know, start taking this, take melatonin,
but it really worked." So now I'm like a
real uh believer in in that kind of uh
piece.
>> Couple of final questions. Do you ever
wake up at night and think like, "Oh my
god, where the world is going with AI?"
like because you see all the headlines,
right, and all the things happening. Are
you optimistic or pessimistic?
>> I'm generally optimistic, but I'm also
um maybe a cautious optimism or like
that um it's optimism if you believe you
can actually uh help steer things
towards a good outcome. So, one of the
biggest things I want to do coming out
of the artifact experience, I knew I
wanted to go work at a frontier model
lab. I thought that that's what you know
the maximum impact I was going to have
in the next few years but I really
wanted to be somewhere where I felt
really aligned with the you know the
founding team and the kind of core
ethics of the company around how they
thought about scaling AI right so it's
not just build the most powerful AI you
possibly can it's also dedicate effort
to understanding how these models work
and how we can control them and how we
can responsibly scale them and so um
there's definitely you know inside
anthropic and outside a lot of
conversations around like well this
could be really positive for humanity.
It also could go quite badly and there's
going to be economic impacts, there's
going to be labor impacts, there's
models that we don't understand yet and
how how they scale. Um, so I wanted to
be somewhere where we were also asking
and working on those questions alongside
the you know more purely like let's just
make the models
>> really good. So, do you think do you
think we're going to have universal
basic income at some stage? And would
companies like Anthropic sponsor it or
>> Yeah, I think that like how we help
society navigate is very much an open
question. I think that the the the big
open question that we'll also have to
tackle is what is where do people draw
meaning from in a place where not
everybody has to work anymore like what
is the source of both meaning and
challenges and is it you know finding
ways in which people stay engaged? Is it
that a lot of people will be
entrepreneurial? As you mentioned, not
everybody is going to have that kind of
drive. And so for those folks, what is
the, you know, what is the community
that they find? What is their personal
challenge that they find even beyond
that that retains that meaning?
>> What do you think?
>> I think, you know, I look to sports as a
kind of an interesting example where we
draw a lot of um meaning and um sort of
uh like high stakes from an environment
that is actually completely fabricated.
And so not everything should be exactly
like sports, but whether it's, you know,
uh who's contributing the most to their
city or their community or who's like
mastered this particular thing or even
artistic pursuits like, you know, um
getting really into art or music or
something like that. I find uh
inspiration in those fields and maybe
more of people will draw meaning from
those kinds of pursuits where the yard
stick is not necessarily how much money
did you make or is your company at the
top of the leaderboard but more around
okay I have some personal yard stick
that I'm working towards
>> a hobby like some like that sounds like
a dream life right when you can just
focus on your hobby and have all the
basics
>> and if there's enough of the you know
challenge or meaning in there to still
to still matter.
>> Yeah. What are your top three favorite
AI apps? Um, that's a good question. Of
course, Cloud Code. I spent a lot of
time like coding in Cloud Code and and
and doing that. One interesting one I've
been using, um, uh, you know, for a long
time, I would like, you know, log my,
uh, meals and like my macros and
protein. It's always like such a huge
like annoyance where you're like, I
don't know, I'm going to like estimate
and like what's the portion size? And
all these years of computer vision
research, I think, just got completely
taken over by just feeding them into an
LLM. And so, um, I've been using like an
AI powered meal tracking app that does
such a good you just take a photo and
you go back to your life and
>> it has all your proteins and everything
>> and it's amazing and it like estimates
your your um, uh, like portion sizes,
etc. levels. Um, but what I love is it's
actually very much a uh technology that
hopefully it makes me healthier, but
also just helps me stay present where
I'm not spending like the extra 5
minutes on my phone finding the thing
and it can just be like take a photo
like move on and then and then kind of
go on and go from there as well. Um, and
then last but not least, like I also
just like um anything that has to do
with learning. So like any like AI
powered learning. I've been enjoying
both my kids using Dual Lingo ABC now to
learn some of the alphabet but also
seeing what they've been doing for
example as like advancing language
learning. So anything that like brings
in that kind of AI powered uh you know
conversational piece within cloud we
launched learning mode recently to like
not just give people answers but help
people understand and learn and kind of
iterate from there as well.
>> Thank you so much Michael. Very
inspiring. Thank you. Take it there.